# FM-Transmitter-Circuit
The purpose of this project is to design an FM transmitter using discrete components. A simple FM transmitter uses frequency modulation to transmit an intelligence signal which determines the deviation rate of the carrier frequency from the center frequency. This project was designed in four stages; an input stage, pre-amplification stage, the oscillation/modulation stage, and outputted to an antenna which transmitted the signal. To be able to transmit and FM radio signal it has to be contained within the 87.5MHz to 108MHz range.

An FM transmitter circuit contains four main requirements: it has to generate a carrier frequency at the desired point in the spectrum, provide modulation of the carrier signal by the intelligence signal, provide enough power amplification to carry the signal the required distance, and the circuits impedance of the amplifier has to match the impedance of the antenna for maximum power transfer.

The first stage of this circuit begins by inserting an audio frequency using a signal generator which is used as the intelligence signal. Because the audio signal produces a small AC signal, capacitors (C1 and C3) are used to prevent DC components from interfering with the modulation/oscillation stage. The resisters R2 and R3 are used as biasing resistors to the transistor Q1 which is the second stage of the circuit, the audio pre-amplification stage.

The third stage of the circuit is the modulation/oscillation stage. The carrier frequency is produced in this stage by implementing a variable capacitor and an inductor coil in a parallel LC tank circuit. By winding a 22 gauge wire around a ¼” bolt four times, I was able to produce a coil that would produce a resonant frequency that’s able to transmit my signal when connected in parallel to a 1-10pF variable capacitor. The carrier frequency enters the 2N3904 NPN transistor (Q2) through the collector while the amplified intelligence signal enters in at its base where the two signals then become modulated. The capacitor that connects at the emitter and collector of Q2 is a feedback capacitor. 

With Q2 modulating the carrier frequency and the intelligence signal, the signal is ready to be transmitted at the frequency of 92.6MHz. This brings us to the last stage of the circuit, which is the output stage. This includes an antenna constructed from 22g wire that is 9in long. The modulated signal transmits through the wire sending electromagnetic waves that can be picked up by a receiver that is tuned to the appropriate FM station. 
